Publication 20260525 (#185)
jjon-saxton/yaya-world: content/en/news/2026/youtube-and-copyright.org

#+TITLE: Youtube and Copyright
#+DATE: 2026-05-25T10:21:55-07:00
#+DRAFT: false
#+DESCRIPTION:
#+TAGS[]:
#+KEYWORDS[]:
#+SLUG:
#+SUMMARY: I go over what happened to my livestream on Monday 18 May and what my plan is going forward. This is not something I want to do, but I must protect my archives.

As of now, a week after the incident I will be describing, about 10% of my archived YouTube content has been synced to [[https://odysee.com/@yayoivt:8?r=fFewSdBCc59wLzVqnURiuU1YteYZbNae][Odysee]]. This was never my plan. I am not into crypto and I don't know anything about the block chain. I do know that this platform allows me to easily sync content to it from YouTube and the transition has been fairly smooth, if not long. I am, however, getting a bit ahead of myself.

* What happened

> On 18 Monday 2026 I planned a debut stream to release the second version of my model. All was going well and everyone was loving my new wiggly ears and the attention I gave to my new face and mouth movements. I even got to show off my new toggles and outfits that go with them. I was nice.

Reviewer: Monday, 18 May...

```suggestion
On Monday, 18 May 2026 I planned a debut stream to release the second version of my model. All was going well and everyone was loving my new wiggly ears and the attention I gave to my new face and mouth movements. I even got to show off my new toggles and outfits that go with them. It was nice.
```

I received multiple warnings, but I knew this had to be an error as I knew I was using the right tracks and that I had permission to use this music in livestreams. As I was wrapping up, however, YouTube stopped and removed my livestream. There is a highlight of the debut on [[https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2775390609][Twitch]], but I figured I could appeal this and let them know this is an error. That didn't work as I thought it would

* YouTube's Appeal Process

"If you think this is an error, please fill this out." Not exactly their wording, but close to it. My manager filled out the form and told YouTube that we were using music we had permission to use. Thinking that YouTube would than need to contact Chillhop to verify this we waited. About 24 hours later though, we received an e-mail:

We have reviewed your appeal for the following: [link to my livestream]

We reviewed your content carefully, and have confirmed that it violates our 3rd party content policy. We know this is probably disappointing news, but it is our job to make sure that YouTube is a safe place for all.

> I have my own views on what the really mean by this, but this was not the result we were expecting. Not only does this not communicate why they feel that we violated their policy despite having permission to use the content in our livestreams, it also doesn't communicate that they even contacted Chillhop to verify our permission. This is /not/ disappointing, this is terrible. As of now the video still reminds off except for the highlight I linked previously.

Reviewer: they mean

```suggestion
I have my own views on what they really mean by this, but this was not the result we were expecting. Not only does this not communicate why they feel that we violated their policy despite having permission to use the content in our livestreams, it also doesn't communicate that they even contacted Chillhop to verify our permission. This is /not/ disappointing, this is terrible. As of now the video still remains offline except for the highlight I linked previously.
```
